## Dive to React

[A High Level Overview Of React - You Tube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FRjlF74_EZk)

What is React?

What is a component?

What is the dataflow of React?

How do we make a React element a DOM element?

React is a User Interface ______.

Which direction does data flow in React?

Every component manages its own ____.

### Essential Read: Class 01
[Component-Based Architecture]()  
[What is Props and How to Use it in React]()  
[React Tutorial through ‘Passing Data Through Props’](https://react.dev/learn/tutorial-tic-tac-toe)  
[React Docs - Hello world](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/hello-world.html)  
[React Docs - Introducing JSX](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html)  
[React Docs - Rendering elements](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/rendering-elements.html)  
[React Docs - Components and props](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html)  


### Questions and Answers
1. What is a “component”?  
It is a fundamental building block that represents a reusable piece of the user interface. It allows developers to split the user interface into smaller pieces. In this way it is easier to develop and manitain complex applications.  
>React follows a component-based architecture, where the user interface is composed of multiple components, each  
>responsible for rendering a specific part of the UI. These components can be combined to create more complex  
>components or even entire pages.  

Two main types of components in React:  
**Functional Components** - written in js:
- input data (props)  
- return
**Class Components** - written in ES6 classes
2. What are the characteristics of a component?  
- Reusability - promotes modular and mantainable codebase  
- Encapsulation - allows better isolation of functionality and reduces unitended side efects   
- Composition - parent components can include child components   and pass data to the using props
- Hierarchy - enables a clear and organised structure for building UIs  
- State - allows components to maintain and manage their own data and when the state changes, React automatically re-renders  the component to reflect the updated state  
- Props - there are read-only and cannot be modified with the component that receives them; the enable communication between components and allow passing data down the component tree   
- Lifecycle Methods (Class Components)  
- Hooks (Functional Components) - provide a more concise and flexible way to handle state lifecycle behaviour within ficntional components  
- Virtual DOM    
- Event Handling  
3. What are the advantages of using component-based architecture?  
- Reusability and Modularity  
- Isolation and Encapsulation  
- Ease of Mainenance  
- Improved Collaboration  
- Scalability  
- Testing  
- Ease of debugging  
- Faster development
- Community and ecosystem  
- Consisten UI  
4. What is “props” short for?  
It stands for 'properties'. Props are mechanisms for passing data from parent component to its child component. To pass props form a parent component to a child component, you define attributes on the child component when using it in JSX. These attributes represent the data that will be received as props by a child component. In the child component, you can access the prop value through the `props` object
5. How are props used in React?  
They are used to provide data or configuration to a component, allowing the component to render based on the provided info  
6. What is the flow of props?  
It is aa unindirectional data flow , what means that data is passed from parent to their child components in a one-way direction. The flow ensures that the parent component remains the source of truth for the data, and any changes to the data are propagated down the component tree.  
**Flow of props summary:**  
- Data setup  
- Passing Props  
- Receiving Props  
- Rendering with Props  
- Updating Props  
- Re-rendering  
- Child Components as Parent Components

### React
**Definition** - React is a JavaScript-based UI development library

**React** - props:
- properties