## REST

### Reading
[What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/magazine/what-google-learned-from-its-quest-to-build-the-perfect-team.html)  
[How I explained REST to my brother](https://gist.github.com/brookr/5977550)  

#### API Keys
[Geocoding API](https://locationiq.com/)  
Did you get your API key? **YES**  
[Weather Bit API](https://www.weatherbit.io/)  
Did you get your API key?  
[Yelp API Docs](https://docs.developer.yelp.com/reference/v3_business_search)  
Did you get your API key?  
[The Movie DB API Docs](https://developer.themoviedb.org/docs/getting-started)  
Did you get your API key?  

**WRRC** - web request refresh cycle  

What Are the Various Types of HTTP Request Methods discussed on the morning class:
- GET -  is used to retrieve and request data from a specified resource in a server. GET is one of the most popular HTTP request techniques. In simple words, the GET method is used to retrieve whatever information is identified by the Request-URL.  
- PUT - PUT is similar to POST as it is used to send data to the server to create or update a resource. The difference between the two is that PUT requests are idempotent. This means that if you call the same PUT requests multiple times, the results will always be the same.  
- DELETE - Just as it sounds, the DELETE request method is used to delete resources indicated by a specific URL. Making a DELETE request will remove the targeted resource.  

**API** - application programing interface; a set of functions and procedures allowing the creation of applications that access the features or data of an operating system, application, or other service.  
key=value  (locatioIQ link is taken form geocoding tab: two zone - US and Europe)

**.env** (Environment variables)  
- used to store sensitive data such as passwords, API credentials, and other information that should not be written directly in code   
- is a shell command for Unix and Unix-like operating systems. It is used to either print a list of environment variables or run another utility in an altered environment without having to modify the currently existing environment

**Axios** - is a library that serves to create HTTP requests that are present externally. It is evident from the fact that we may sometimes in React applications need to get data from the external source. It is quite difficult to fetch such data so that they can be normally shown on the website.  

**try catch** - error handler

**locationIQ** - watch the demo on the webesite [LocationIQ](https://my.locationiq.com/dashboard/?firstLogin=1)  
LocationIQ provides flexible enterprise-grade location based solutions. We work with developers, startups and enterprises worldwide serving billions of requests everyday. This page provides an overview of the technical aspects of our API and will help you get started.  

**404 error code** - means that a server could not find a client-requested webpage  


### Questions and Answers  
1. To what extent did psychological safety impact your previous work experience?  

2. How does this article inform your approach to working with others moving forward?  

3. Who is Roy Fielding?  
Some guy ;)  
But also the guy who is one of proncipal authors of the HTTP spec. He also played a significant role i shaping the World Wide Web, he also played a key figure in the development of web standarts and protocols. He also intridyced and and defined the Representational State Transfer (REST) architecture style. REST is the foundation for designing scalable, efficient and mainatanable web services and APIs  
4. Why don’t the techniques that we use in this class work well when we need to be able to talk to all of the machines in the world?  
It is due to vast diversity in hardware, sofrtware and network configs across different devices and locations. That makes universal compatibility and seamless communication challangeing  
5. What is the HTTP protocol that Fielding and his friends created?  
World Wide Web  
6. What does a GET do?  
It is used to retrieve data from specified resources on the web server (HTTP protocol)
7. What does a POST do?  
It is used to submit data to be processed to as specified resource on the web server (HTTP protocol)
8. What does PUT do?  
HTTP protocol used to update or replace a resource on the web server with data provided in the reqeust
9. What does PATCH do?  
HTTP protocol used to apply partial modifications to a resource on the web server; it allows clients to send only the specific changes they want to make to the resources, rather than replacing the entire resource as done with the PUT request  
