##  NODE.JS

### Express js
- Express is a minimal and flexible Node.js web application framework that provides a robust set of features for web and mobile applications  
- Express.js, or simply Express, is a back end web application framework for building RESTful APIs with Node.js, released as free and open-source software under the MIT License. It is designed for building web applications and APIs. It has been called the de facto standard server framework for Node.js
**Express Server**
- allows to handle different http methods

**Server**  
- a computer or computer program which manages access to a centralized resource or service in a network  

## Mono repo
### Create a mono repo

1. in the terminal:
- mkdir wild-west
- cd wild-west
- mkdir server
- cd .. this will take you back to wild-west directory
- code . this will open the wild-west directory in VSCode

2. In the terminal in VScode
- cd server
- touch server.js
- npm init -y
- npm i express dotenv cors nodemon
- change package.json start script to nodemon

3. Inside server.js
- const express = require("express")
- const cors = require("cors")
- require("dotenv").config()
- const PORT = process.env.PORT || 8080
- const app - express()
- app.use(cors())
- app.listen(PORT, ()=>console.log(app is listening on port ${PORT}))
- create a test route 
    - app.get("/", (request, response)=>{
    response.status(200).json("you are looking at my root route. How roude.")
    })
- In the terminal enter npm start
    - the teminal should log the console.log from app.listen()
- In your browser go to localhost:8090 you should see the response:
    - you are looking at my root route. How roude.

4. Create a new endpoint
    - app.get("/survive", (request, response)=>{
    const scenarios = ["You made it to the saloon congrats","You died of dsyentery""A snake gotcha","Your horse made it... you did not","You found gold","You found oil","You didn't even attempt to cross the Oregon trail."]
    const randonNum = Math.floor(Math.random() * scenarios.length)
    const outcome = scenarios[randomNum]

    response.json(outcome)
    })

### Reading
[An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com](https://www.sitepoint.com/an-introduction-to-node-js/)  
[6 Reasons for Pair Programming](https://www.codefellows.org/blog/6-reasons-for-pair-programming/)  

## Bookmark and Review
[Geocoding API Docs](https://locationiq.com/)  
[Axios docs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios)  
[MDN async and await](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous/Promises)  

## Questions and Answers
1. What is node.js?  
It is an open-source, server side js runtime environment that allows developers to execute js code outside code of a web browser, making it possible to build scalable and efficient server-side applications
2. In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?  
It interprets  and executes js code in Google Chrome we browser and other environment. js code is compiled into machine code for fast execution, enabling web apps to run more efficiently and smoothly
3. What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?  
It provides an environment for executing js code outside of a web browser. In that way js can be run on servers, enabling them to build server-side apps using js
4. What is npm?  
Node Package Manager - it is central repository for a wide range of libraries, frameworks and tools to enhace Node.js projects. npm simplifies the process of integrating third-party code into apps
5. What version of node are you running on your machine?  
v18.16.0
6. What version of npm are you running on your machine?  
9.5.1
7. What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?  
npm install jshint
8. What is node used for?  
It is used for building server-side apps and web servers. It allows to run js code on the server, handles incoming HTTP requests, processes data, interacts with databases and poerforms other server-side tasks. Also it is well-siuted fro creating real-time aoos, APIs and networking applications. Node.js is non-blocking, event-driven architucture
9. What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?  
- Improved Code Quality  
- Knowlendge Sharing  
- Faster Problem Solving  
- Contiunous Feedback  
- Enchanced Team Communication  
- Learning Opportunities  
10. In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?  
I am still gaining that experience, so it is hard to tell yet  
11. How does pair programming work?  
It is collaborative way of writting, reviewing and debugging code. One prson in the group is a*driver* and another is a *navigator*. *Driver* writes the code, *navigator* reviews it (each line) and provides feedback, suggestions and so on. The roles can be switched.


