## APIs

### Class Notes  
how to to start express server:
cd
m
#### Morning Mini-assignment - INSTRUCTIONS  
- create a repo named splash-api on github and clone it locally  
- in the terminal run the command npm init  
- inside the package.json  
- add a start script: "start": "nodemon server.js"  
- create a server.js file
- in the terminal enter the command:
  - npm i dotenv express nodemon cors axios
- create a .env file and a .gitignore file
  - inside the .gitignore file add:
    - .env
    - node_modules
- inside the .env file set the PORT=8090
- import express, cors and axios:
    - const express = require("express")
    - const cors = require("cors")
    - const axios = require("axios")
- Load environment variables from the dotenv
    - require("dotenv").config()
        - enbales environment variables through process.env
- Declare app as express invoked
    - const app = express()
- enable cors
    - app.use(cors())
- set the PORT
    - const PORT = process.env.PORT || 8090
- create an endpoint for the home route and set a response
- invoke app.listen to listen on the PORT and run a callback to console.log in the terminal
- In the terminal run nodemon server
    - check localhost:8090 is running.const cors = require("cors")  
- Google unsplah API or go to https://unsplash.com/developers
    - Register as a developer
    - click new application
    - Accept terms and complete form
    - set ACCESS_KEY in the  .env
        - Note: be sure to stop and restart the server
    - Go to documentation
        - select search photo by keyword
    - Go to Public Authetication
        - copy the link: https://api.unsplash.com/photos/?client_id=YOUR_ACCESS_KEY
            - just save this somewhere so you have it and don't need to look for it again
      
- create an app.get endpoint and set the Route to /photos
    - set the callback function with request, response however:
        - make sure the function is async
        - use await on the axios.get(API)
    - declare a variable named API and set the value to the API url
    - declare a variable named res and set the value to:
        - await axios.get(API)
    - console.log(res.data)
        - In the browser search localhost:8090/photos
        - show the terminal in VScode we have a results array
    - Run console for:
        - console.log(res.data.results)
        - console.log(res.data.results[0].urls)
            - we want the regulars
    - declare a variable named photos and set the value to:
        - res.data.results.map((photo)=>{})
        - inside the .map function return an object with properties:
            - id: photo.id
            - img_url: photo.urls.regular,
            - original_image: photo.links.self,
            - photographer: photo.user.name,
    - finally set the response.json(photos)
- https://api.unsplash.com/search/photos/?client_id=YOUR_ACCESS_KEY&query=wizard
- replace the YOUR_ACCESS_KEY to process.env......

json formatter 
### Reading
[API Design Best Practices](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/best-practices/api-design)  

### Bookmark and Review
[RegExr ](https://regexr.com/) - Pay particular attention to the cheatsheet  
[Regex Tutorial](https://medium.com/factory-mind/regex-tutorial-a-simple-cheatsheet-by-examples-649dc1c3f285)  
[Regex 101](https://regex101.com/)  

### Questions and Answers  
1. What does REST stand for?  

2. REST APIs are designed around a ____.  

3. What is an identifier of a resource? Give an example.  

4. What are the most common HTTP verbs?  

5. What should the URIs be based on?  

6. Give an example of a good URI.  

7. What does it mean to have a ‘chatty’ web API? Is this a good or a bad thing?  

8. What status code does a successful GET request return?  

9. What status code does an unsuccessful GET request return?  

10. What status code does a successful POST request return?  

11. What status code does a successful DELETE request return?  

### howdoestheinternetwork  
well?  

*How does the internet work anyway? & Other questions.*  
*For this warmup session, you need to either make a fork of this repo, or copy the content, and answer each of the questions below, either from memory or google it. If you do google it, reword it, or find another resource that makes more sense to you.*  

1. What is npm?  
- It is abbreviation for *'Node Package Manager'*  
- Package manager for the js programming language  
- Primarily used for managing and sharing code modules (packages)  
- Allows developerw to easily install, update  and unistal various libararies, frameworks and tools needed for Node.js projects  
2. What is the difference between npm and npx? Why are we using npx when doing create-react-app, but using npm i axios when installing axios?  
- node package manager vs node package runner tool; npx runs the installed package from the local node_modules  directory  
-  npx allows to run app directly without installing it permanently while when instaling axios we use npm (we want axios as dependency in our project) we make app available for use throughout the project (not one off).
3. What is a CDN?  
Content Distribution Network - network servers distributed accross various geographical locations, dersigned to deliber web content (imgs, videos, css files and so on), efficient and with higher performance. CDNs reduce the load on the origin server, decreses latency, improves the overall website or app loading speed
4. What is a protocol?  
- set of rules and conventions that define how data is transmitted and communicated between devices or systems in network. It ensures standarised communication, enabling devices to understand and interpret data exchange between them
5. What is the difference betweeen HTTP and HTTPS?  
- Hypertext Transfer Protocol vs Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure  
- HTTPS provides extra layer of security comparedf to HTTP  
`Hypertext Transfer Protocol`:  
- Stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol  
- Transmits data in plain text, making it vulnerable to interception and manipulation  
- Not secure for transmitting sensitive information like passwords or credit card details  
- Uses port 80  
`Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure`:  
- Stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure  
- Utilizes encryption (usually SSL/TLS) to secure data transmission  
- Protects against eavesdropping and data tampering, ensuring data integrity and confidentiality  
- Recommended for transmitting sensitive information  
- Uses port 443  
6. What is the 'user-agent'?  
- is is a string by a web browser or client app to identify itself to the server  
- contains info about the client's operating system/browser/other details- it helps the server tailor response for cmpatibility and optimization  
7. What is an HTTP status code? What are some common ones you may run into, and what do they mean? What's one uncommon one?  
- Common HTTP status codes:  
    - **200 OK:** The request was successful, and the server returned the requested data  
    - **404 Not Found:** The requested resource could not be found on the server  
    - **500 Internal Server Error:** An unexpected condition was encountered on the server, causing an error  
- Uncommon HTTP status code:  
    - 418 I'm a teapot: This humorous code is not frequently used in production systems. It was introduced in April Fools' Day as part of the Hyper Text Coffee Pot Control Protocol (HTCPCP) and is returned when a server is, in fact, a teapot and cannot brew coffee  
8. What is a DNS?  
- Domain Name System
- hierarchical decentralized system that translates human-readable domain names into IP adresses  
- enables users to access website and services using domain names while computers cimmunicate with each otherusing IP address  
- it acts like a phonebook of the internet, helping users find correct server for given domain name  
9. Find out an interesting fact about any of the stuff talked about above  
HTTP status code "418 I' am a teapot":  
- client error response code indicates that the server refuses to brew coffee because it is permanently, a teapot. A combined coffee/tea pot that is temporarily out of coffe should instead return 503
- the error is the reference to Hyper Text Coffee Pot Control Protocol defined in April Fools' jokes in 1988 and 2014  
- Some websites use this response for requests they do not wish to handle, such as automated queries  
