## In memory storage

### Extra Excercise (otherwise finish lab for this week):
Create an app that:
- uses React for the front end
- uses an Express server to provide the data
  - the data should be stored in a JSON file
  - there should be the option to get all the data OR a filtered portion of it
- is hosted on Netlify and Render
- includes the colour "tomato" somewhere within the CSS
- make use of monospace font for at least one 5 letter word

The theme of the app can be whatever you like, here are some suggestions:

- Chris' favourite holiday spots
- Chris' favourite foods
- Chris' least favourite foods
- Chris' Mac repair tutorials
- Chris and the Giant Peach

### Reading  
[Understanding the JavaScript Call Stack](https://codeburst.io/javascript-error-messages-debugging-d23f84f0ae7c)  
[JavaScript error messages](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Errors)  

### Bookmark and Review
[JavaScript errors reference on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Errors)  

### Questions and Answers  
1. What is a ‘call’?  
- a "call" refers to the action of invoking or executing a function or subroutine  
- When a function is called, the program transfers control to that function's code, and the function carries out its specified tasks  
- After the function completes its execution, control returns to the point in the program where the call was made  
- Function calls are fundamental in programming as they allow for code modularity, reusability, and organization
2. How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?  

3. What does LIFO mean?  
Last-In, First-Out -
4. Draw an example of a call stack and the functions that would need to be invoked to generate that call stack.  

5. What causes a Stack Overflow?  

6. What is a ‘reference error’?  

7. What is a ‘syntax error’?  

8. What is a ‘range error’?  

9. What is a ‘type error’?  

10. What is a breakpoint?  

11. What does the word ‘debugger’ do in your code?  

### Next week topics - google session 
1. In simple terms, explain the difference between a client and a server.  
they are two different components in a computer network that work together to enable communication and data exchange.   
Definitions:  
- Client - user device/software app that requests info or services form the server. Client initiates communication by sending request to the server and receives response back (requester)  
- Server - powerful cmputer or software app that responds to the client requests providing data, services or resources (responder)   

2. What are a few different types of database(s)?  
- Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) - MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and SQL Server  
- NoSQL Databases - MongoDB (document-based), Cassandra (column-family), and Redis (key-value)  
- Graph Databases - Neo4j and Amazon Neptune    
- Time-Series Databases - InfluxDB and Prometheus     
- Object-Oriented Databases  
- XML Databases  
3. When speaking about databases, what's the difference between a 'document' and a 'table'?  
`table` -  retational databases with fixed schema and tabular structure
`document` - flexible schema and semi-schema structured data formats like json or bson
4. What is a cluster? (In MongoDB)  
- group of servers that work together to work together to store and manage data for a database  
- contains multiple MongoDN instance, called nodes, deployed accross different machines or servers to provide high availability, scalability and fault tolerance 
5. What are the main HTTP methods? What do they do?  
GET - retrieve data from the server  
POST - Used to submit data to the server to create or update a resource   
PUT - Used to update or replace an existing resource on the server   
DELETE - Used to delete a resource specified by the URL    
PATCH - Used to partially update a resource on the server   
HEAD - Similar to GET, but it requests only the response headers, not the actual data, useful for checking resource metadata without downloading the full conten  
6. What is REST? What does it stand for? How is it related to API's?  
"Representational State Transfer." -  is an architectural style, and RESTful APIs are APIs that adhere to this style, making them easy to understand, scalable, and interoperable with various systems and platforms  
7. What does the term 'CRUD' mean? Could you relate this back to the HTTP methods?  
 Create, Read, Update, and Delete - epresents the four basic operations that can be performed on resources in a data storage system:  
 - Create  
 - Read  
 - Update  
 - Delete  
By mapping CRUD operations to HTTP methods, RESTful APIs provide a standardized and consistent way to perform various data manipulations on resources over the web  
POST, GET, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE. These methods correspond to create, read, update, and delete (or CRUD) operations, respectively  

8. What is the different between 'PUT' and 'PATCH'. What does idempotent mean?  
PUT updates a resource, while PATCH sends a set of instructions to the URI to update the child resource 
**Idempotent:** In the context of HTTP methods, idempotent means that making multiple identical requests to a resource will have the same effect as making a single request. Both 'PUT' and 'DELETE' are considered idempotent, meaning that performing the same 'PUT' or 'DELETE' request multiple times will not produce different outcomes as long as the request is targeting the same resource. However, 'PATCH' is not strictly idempotent because sending the same 'PATCH' request multiple times may result in different outcomes if different fields are updated in each request   
[What Is an Idempotent API?](https://blog.hubspot.com/website/idempotent-api)  
9. An interesting fact relating to computuers in some way 🤓  
- over 6000 computer viruses are released each month 
- The first known computer virus was created as an experiment and was not intended to cause harm. Elk Cloner was designed for Apple II computers, and it spread by infecting floppy disks  
- Nintendo was founded in the 19th century  
- The first computer mouse was made of wood
- If you work on computers your hands can travel up to 20km a day  
- In 1956, the first-ever computer hard disk drive (HDD) was developed by IBM, and it was the size of a refrigerator  
- The world's first computer bug was a literal bug! On September 9, 1947, Grace Hopper, a computer scientist and United States Navy rear admiral, was working on the Harvard Mark II computer. The computer was experiencing some issues, and after investigating, she found the cause: a moth had gotten trapped in one of the computer's relays
